---
title: Tremors
slug: tremors
date_published: 2008-04-18T07:38:47.000Z
date_updated: 2008-04-18T07:38:47.000Z
tags:
  - life
---

Since I was little I've always dreamed of earthquakes just prior to them starting. Last night I did the same thing - but this time here in Illinois and not in my childhood home of Southern California. Apparently a 5.4 (which was later downgraded to a 5.2) point tremor hit Southern Illinois an 4:37 am. The epicenter was at West Salem, about 113 miles West of us here in Greenville.

I was surprised. First off, it felt different than most of the quakes I experienced in CA. On the West coast the ground seems to roll as it moves. Here, it shook side-to-side. Jessica slept right through it. When the shaking was done I listened to hard to try and hear if Hogue Hall had fallen down (our campus' landmark/signature building that is one it's last 150  year old legs). But no rumbling.

Anyway, I expect to hear it over and over here on campus. Everyone will freak out, and it's been said it was felt 300 miles away! WHAT?! I think that people in non-earthquake prone areas tend to exaggerate more than those of us that are used to them. Apparently someone in Cincinnati felt it as well as others in Milwaukee and Atlanta. I find that hard to believe, but okay, maybe.

It just might be a fun day hearing everyone being freaked out and stuff. Cors was tough, he didn't even bark. I actually find that quite strange because dogs are usually the first to sense a tremor. In any case, life should be back to normal. But I'm sure we'll have to make an official statement here at the school.
