---
title: Updating
slug: updating
date_published: 2009-04-07T07:01:04.000Z
date_updated: 2009-04-07T07:01:04.000Z
---

Wow, lack of updates. I guess I'm busy.

First things first, I quit ScriptFrenzy already. I just have too much to do right now. And for me, I found a lot more motivation in writing a novel than I do in writing a script. Every time I sit down to script I think "I have websites and jobs I should be working on" and so I do those instead.

And the fruits of that misplaces labour is that whatisawix.com is almost finished. And I've got a good bead on the GFMC site. AND I possibly have a new client from here at the school. That's exciting. He's a super cool guy and, from what I hear, an excellent musician.

Last Saturday I judged the AgapeFest Battle of the Bands. It was kind of a long afternoon, but I've judged the thing the last three years and ran it before that. So I knew what I was getting into. It was a pretty good show with some great bands and some good bands and some so-so bands. But that's what you get at a battle.

So, in a month it'll be festival time and that will take up my life for about two weeks. I've got video to coordinate and a staff to look after and probably something else that'll come up. Sadly no friends in bands coming out this year, but that's okay.

I'm also planning some cool micro-blogging on [www.agapefest.com](http://www.agapefest.com) the week of set up. I think I found a WP plugin that'll work out and we'll be able to twitter from @[agapefest](http://twitter.com/agapefest) and have WordPress pull in the photos we send to TwitPic via our iPhones and such. Probably should take my Flip camera out too. Man. This might actually be fun!
